# CNF Generator

## A (random) generator of Conjunctive Normal Form boolean formulas, isomorphic formulas and non-isomorphic formulas

This Python project allows users to generate and compare boolean formulas in Conjunctive Normal Form. These formulas respect important features such as: size, clause dimension, monotonicity, and, more important, isomorphism and non-ismorphism (trivial and non-trivial) between pairs.

It will be possibly useful in the future, in order to train specific Artificial Intelligences.

### Project Content
The project contains some useful functions. It follows an essential overview of the project's files content and where to find the needed functions. Higher level functions which implement the software purpose are included in the __demo.py__ file and a brief tutorial about their arguments is provided.

#### demo.py
It shows a possible use of the higher level functions available in the project.

\#TODO

#### cnf_generator/cnf.py
This file contains the classes definitions of the needed entities:
1. Literals
2. Clauses
3. CNFs

Most of the times they'll not be necessary to the user: functions already create the needed objects.

#### cnf_generator/iso_gen.py
Functions:
* __map_literal__: Return a new literal using mappings.
* __cnf_isomorphic_generator__: Return a new cnf isomorph to the original.

#### cnf_generator/non_iso_gen.py
Functions:
* __cnf_generator_trivial_add_clause__: Generate a new cnf trivially non isomorph to the original by adding a new clause.
* __\_add_literal_to_the_first_clause_available__: Add literal to the first clause that does not already include it, returning the new cnf.
* __cnf_generator_trivial_add_literal_occurrence__: Generate a new cnf trivially non isomorph to the original by adding a literal coccurrence to a clause.
* __cnf_generator_trivial_add_new_symbol__: Generate a new cnf trivially non isomorph to the original by adding a new symbol to a clause.
* __cnf_generator_trivial__: Generate a new cnf trivially non isomorph to the original applying a random generator.
* __cnf_generator__: Generate a new cnf non isomorph to the original.

#### cnf_generator/non_iso_gen_paper.py
Classes (used by the main function which implements the paper algorithm):
* __LiteralCounter__: Represent a counter for both positive and negated literal.
* __CardinalityRepository__: Represent all the info about cardinalities of a cnf.

Functions:
* __\_correct_order_of_symbols__: Return the correct order of a pair of counters, raising an exception if there are no one.
* __\_swappable_pair_of_literals__: Iterate through the pair of literals that could be swapped.
* __non_trivial_non_isomorphic_cnf_generator__: (main function) Return a new cnf generated by using the paper algorithm.

#### cnf_generator/random_generators.py
Functions:
* __random_cnf__: Generate a random cnf based on some parameters.  Parameters:
    * _symbols_: a list of symbols (List of strings)
    * _min\_num\_symbols_: Minimum amount of symbols (integer)
    * _max\_num\_symbols_: Maximum amount of symbols (integer)
    * _min\_num\_clauses_: Minimum amount of clauses (integer)
    * _max\_num\_clauses_: Maximum amount of clauses (integer)
    * _avg\_literals\_per\_clause_: Average number of literals per clause (integer)
    * _all\_clauses\_same\_dimension_: Specifies if all clauses must contain the same number of literals (boolean) - If true, _avg\_literals\_per\_clause_ specifies the exact amount of literals per clause
    * _monotone_: Specifies if the CNF must be monotone (boolean)
    * _random\_seed_ (Optional): Use this if you want to give a specific seed to the random generator.
* __random\_cnfs__: Return an iterator over many random cnfs.  Parameters:
    * _how\_many\_cnf_: Specifies the number of cnfs (integer)
*  __random\_pairs__: Iterate through pairs of cnfs generated based on the probabilities.  Parameters:
    * _how\_many\_pairs_ (Mandatory): Specifies how many random pairs the returned iterator must contain
    * _isomorph\_probability_, _non\_isomorph\_trivial\_probability_, _non\_isomorph\_non\_trivial\_probability_: Specify the probability to find these kind of pair in the iterator (float) - The sum of three values must be 1
